Article

An employee is considered dismissed when:

Employees are considered dismissed upon the expiry of their termination notice period.

Also, upon dismissal, employees are entitled to these rights:

1. Leave balance Article 58 of the Bahraini Labour Law stipulates that an employee is entitled to 30 days of annual leave. The employee is entitled to receive payment in lieu of the accrued leave days. 

2. Travel tickets As per Article 27 of the Labour Market Regulatory Law, expatriates are entitled to a travel ticket back to their home country if they do not start working with another employer in Bahrain. 

3. End of service indemnity Expatriates who do not benefit from social insurance under the Social Insurance Law are entitled to an end of service indemnity. Article 116 of the Bahraini Labour Law explains the calculation method by stating that: “[A] worker shall be entitled upon the termination of his employment to a leaving indemnity at the rate of half month’s wage for each of the first three years of employment and one month’s wage for each of the following years in service. A worker shall be entitled to receive his leaving indemnity for fractions of the year in proportion to the period spent in the employer’s service.” The calculation in the abovementioned Article shall be based on the employee’s most recent wage, excluding all allowances except social allowance. 

4. End of service certificate Upon termination or during the course of employment, an employer is obliged to give an employee an end of service certificate pursuant to Article 13 of the Bahraini Labour Law, which stipulates as follows: “[A]n employer shall give to a worker, upon request and free of charge, a certificate confirming the date of employment, type of job, wage, other benefits received, experience, professional skills, date and reason for termination of the contract of employment.” 5. Notice period Employees are entitled to be served notice in accordance with the terms of their contracts, subject to which the notice period should not be less than 30 days in advance. If the employer fails to serve the notice in a timely manner, the employee is entitled to his/her wages for the notice period.

5.Notice period Employees are entitled to be served notice in accordance with the terms of their contracts, subject to which the notice period should not be less than 30 days in advance. If the employer fails to serve the notice in a timely manner, the employee is entitled to his/her wages for the notice period.
